git-lfs-locks(1) -- Lists currently locked files from the Git LFS server.
=============================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`git lfs locks` [options]

## DESCRIPTION

Lists current locks from the Git LFS server.

## OPTIONS

* `-r` <name> `--remote=`<name>:
  Specify the Git LFS server to use. Ignored if the `lfs.url` config key is set.

* `-i <id>` `--id=<id>`:
  Specifies a lock by its ID. Returns a single result.

* `-p <path>` `--path=<path>`:
  Specifies a lock by its path. Returns a single result.

* `--local`:
  Lists only our own locks which are cached locally. Skips a remote call.

* `--cached`:
  Lists cached locks from the last remote call. Contrary to --local, this will
  include locks of other users as well. This option is intended to display the
  last known locks in case you are offline. There is no guarantee that locks
  on the server have not changed in the meanwhile.

* `--verify`:
  Verifies the lock owner on the server and marks our own locks by 'O'.
  Own locks are actually held by us and corresponding files can be updated for
  the next push. All other locks are held by someone else.
  Contrary to --local, this option will also detect locks which are held by us
  despite no local lock information being available (e.g. because the file had
  been locked from a different clone);
  it will also detect 'broken' locks (e.g. if someone else has forcefully
  unlocked our files).

* `-l <num>` `--limit=<num>`:
  Specifies number of results to return.

* `--json`:
  Writes lock info as JSON to STDOUT if the command exits successfully. Intended
  for interoperation with external tools. If the command returns with a non-zero
  exit code, plain text messages will be sent to STDERR.

## SEE ALSO

git-lfs-lock(1), git-lfs-unlock(1).

Part of the git-lfs(1) suite.
