git-lfs-clone(1) -- Efficiently clone a LFS-enabled repository
========================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`git lfs clone` [git clone options] <repository> [<directory>]

## DESCRIPTION

Clone an LFS enabled Git repository more efficiently by disabling LFS during the
git clone, then performing a 'git lfs pull' directly afterwards.

'git lfs clone' also installs all of the repo-level hooks (.git/hooks) that LFS
requires to operate. If `--separate-git-dir` is given, the hooks will be
installed there.

This is faster than a regular 'git clone' because that will download LFS content
using the smudge filter, which is executed individually per file in the working
copy. This is relatively inefficient compared to the batch mode and parallel
downloads performed by 'git lfs pull'.

## OPTIONS

All options supported by 'git clone'

* `-I` <paths> `--include=`<paths>:
  See [INCLUDE AND EXCLUDE]

* `-X` <paths> `--exclude=`<paths>:
  See [INCLUDE AND EXCLUDE]

* `--skip-repo`:
  Skip installing repo-level hooks (.git/hooks) that LFS requires. Disabled by
  default.

## INCLUDE AND EXCLUDE

You can configure Git LFS to only fetch objects to satisfy references in certain
paths of the repo, and/or to exclude certain paths of the repo, to reduce the
time you spend downloading things you do not use.

In lfsconfig, set lfs.fetchinclude and lfs.fetchexclude to comma-separated lists
of paths to include/exclude in the fetch (wildcard matching as per gitignore).
Only paths which are matched by fetchinclude and not matched by fetchexclude
will have objects fetched for them.

Note that using the command-line options `-I` and `-X` override the respective
configuration settings.

## SEE ALSO

git-clone(1), git-lfs-pull(1).

Part of the git-lfs(1) suite.
