git-lfs-config(1) -- Configuration options for git-lfs
======================================================

## CONFIGURATION FILES

git-lfs uses the same configuration files as git-config(1) with the same
precedence. Most options pertaining to git-lfs are contained in the `[lfs]`
section, meaning they all named `lfs.foo` or similar, although Occasionally an 
lfs option can be scoped inside the configuration for a remote.

## LIST OF OPTIONS

### General settings

* `lfs.url` / `<remote>.lfsurl`
  
  The url used to call the Git LFS remote API. Default blank (derive from clone
  URL).
  
* `lfs.concurrenttransfers`
  
  The number of concurrent uploads/downloads. Default 3.

* `lfs.batch`
  
  Whether to use the batch API instead of requesting objects individually.
  Default false.

### Fetch settings

* `lfs.fetchinclude`

  When fetching, only download objects which match any entry on this 
  comma-separated list of paths/filenames. Wildcard matching is as per 
  git-ignore(1). See git-lfs-fetch(1) for examples.

* `lfs.fetchexclude`

  When fetching, do not download objects which match any item on this
  comma-separated list of paths/filenames. Wildcard matching is as per 
  git-ignore(1). See git-lfs-fetch(1) for examples.


* `lfs.fetchrecentrefsdays`
  
  If non-zero, fetches refs which have commits within N days of the current 
  date. Only local refs are included unless lfs.fetchrecentremoterefs is true.
  The default is 7 days.

* `lfs.fetchrecentremoterefs`
  
  If true, fetches remote refs as well as local refs in the recent window. This 
  is useful to fetch objects for remote branches you might want to check out 
  later, but means more refs are downloaded. The default is false.

* `lfs.fetchrecentcommitsdays`
  
  In addition to fetching at refs, also fetches previous changes made within N 
  days of the latest commit on the ref. This is useful if you're often reviewing
  recent changes. The default is 0 (no previous changes).

* `lfs.fetchrecentalways`
  
  Always operate as if --recent was included in a `git lfs fetch` call. Default
  false.

### Extensions

* `lfs.extension.<name>.<setting>`

  Git LFS extensions enable the manipulation of files streams during smudge and 
  clean. `name` groups the settings for a single extension, and the settings
  are:
  * `clean` The command which runs when files are added to the index
  * `smudge` The command which runs when files are written to the working copy
  * `priority` The order of this extension compared to others

### Other settings

* `lfs.<url>.access`
  
  Note: this setting is normally set by LFS itself on receiving a 401 response
  (authentication required), you don't normally need to set it manually. 

  If set to "private" then credentials will be requested before making batch
  requests to this url, otherwise a public request will initially be attempted. 

## SEE ALSO

git-config(1), git-lfs-init(1), gitattributes(5).

Part of the git-lfs(1) suite.
