git-lfs-ls-files(1) -- Show information about Git LFS files in the index and working tree
=========================================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`git lfs ls-files` [<ref>]<br>
`git lfs ls-files` <ref> <ref>

## DESCRIPTION

Display paths of Git LFS files that are found in the tree at the given
reference.  If no reference is given, scan the currently checked-out branch.
If two references are given, the LFS files that are modified between the two
references are shown; deletions are not listed.

An asterisk (*) after the OID indicates a full object, a minus (-) indicates an
LFS pointer.

## OPTIONS

* `-l` `--long`:
  Show the entire 64 character OID, instead of just first 10.

* `-s` `--size`:
  Show the size of the LFS object between parenthesis at the end of a line.

* -d --debug:
  Show as much information as possible about a LFS file. This is intended
  for manual inspection; the exact format may change at any time.

* -a --all:
  Inspects the full history of the repository, not the current HEAD (or other
  provided reference).

* `--deleted`:
  Shows the full history of the given reference, including objects that have
  been deleted.

* `-I` <paths> `--include=`<paths>:
  Include paths matching only these patterns; see [FETCH SETTINGS].

* `-X` <paths> `--exclude=`<paths>:
  Exclude paths matching any of these patterns; see [FETCH SETTINGS].

* `-n` `--name-only`:
  Show only the lfs tracked file names.
## SEE ALSO

git-lfs-status(1), git-lfs-config(5).

Part of the git-lfs(1) suite.
